# Sentiment-Analysis-of-Tweet-data-using-Support-Vector-Machine-and-Logistic-Regression

# Introduction
The development of the internet has resulted in an abundance of data available on the internet, which can be numerical or text files, structured, semi-structured, or unstructured. Many scholars and practitioners have recently focused on approaches and techniques for using and extracting relevant information from these data. Sentiment analysis, also known as opinion mining, is the process of identifying and extracting subjective data from a variety of sources, which might be positive, neutral, or negative. This large volume of data can be processed into information to support operational, managerial, and strategic decision-making using proper procedures and approaches. The amount of people using social media has increased, with millions of people using it. Twitter has a user base of over 240 million people. People exchange news stories and remark on other people's posts on Twitter, making it a more participatory experience than before. According to CNN news, 75% of individuals got their news relayed via e-mail or social media in 2010, while 37% of people used Twitter to share a news item. The honeycomb networks of social media are gradually becoming the fastest way to spread news, reviews, opinions, comments, and other data throughout the world. Upselling opportunities in enterprises, training chatbots, identifying significant emotional triggers, adaptive customer services, live insights, and tracking customer happiness are all areas where sentimental analysis can be used.


# Pre-Processing
The part that does not contribute significantly to polarity detection is removed during preprocessing. The class label is named first. Each row is checked for a unique class label, if any irreverent or mixed classes are detected, the row is deleted. Following that, we extract all of the tweets and place them in a list to be cleaned up. The tweet's HTML tags is removed. The usernames of account holders and url links are removed. To eliminate inconsistencies, tweets are converted to lower case characters. The '#' sign used to denote hash tags is removed, but the following hash tag word is kept. Additional white spaces and special characters are also removed. Stop words like a, is, the,of, and others that don't add much to polarity identification are removed. The words in the tweet are stemmed after the stop words are removed. The data is split into train and test data set.
